Given two polynomials $f(x),g(x) \in k[x]$ with $g(x) \neq 0$, where $k$ is a field. The Division Algorithm gives unique polynomials $q(x),r(x) \in k[x]$ with 

$$
f(x) = q(x)g(x)+r(x)
$$

where $r=0$ or $\deg(r) < \deg(g)$ and $g | f$ if and only if the remainder $r=0$. 
Now let us look at this formula from a different point of view. To say that $g | f$ is to say that $f \in (g)$, the principal ideal generated by $g(x)$. Thus, the remainder $r$ is the obstruction to $f$ lying in this ideal, that is $f \in (g)$ if and only if $r = 0$. 
Now let extend this: Given polynomials 
$$ f(x), g_1(x),...,g_m(x) \in k[x]$$
where $k$ is a field, when is $f \in I = (g_1,...,g_m)$.?
We now ask whether there is an algorithm in $k[x_1,...,x_n]=k[X]$ to determine, given $f(X),g_1(X),...,g_m(X)\in k[X]$, whether $f \in (g_1,...,g_m)$. A generalized Division algorithm in $k[X]$ should be an algorithm yielding
$$ r(X),a_1(X),...,a_m(X) \in k[X]$$
with $r(X)$ unique such that:
$$ f= a_1g_1+...+a_mg_m + r$$
**Definition 1.** The degree of a nonzero monomial $cx_1^{a_1}...x_n^{a_n} = cX^a \in k[X]$ is the $n$-tuple $a = (a_1,...,a_n) \in \mathbb{N}^n$. We write 
$$ \deg(cX^a) = a$$
The weight $|a|$ of $cX^a$ is the sum $|a| = a_1+...+a_n \in \mathbb{N}$
Now let $\Omega$ be a well-ordered set. [Wiki](https://en-m-wikipedia-org.translate.goog/wiki/Well-order?_x_tr_sl=en&_x_tr_tl=vi&_x_tr_hl=vi&_x_tr_pto=tc) Then:
i/ $\Omega$ is a chain, that is, if $x,y \in \Omega$ then either $x \prec y$ or $y\prec x$. 
ii/ Every strictly decreasing sequence in $\Omega$ is finite.
We will use the second property of well-ordered sets to show that the algorithm will eventually stops. Since the set $\mathbb{N}$ of natural numbers, equipped with the usual inequality $\leq$ is well-ordered, any strictly decreasing sequence of natural numbers must be finite. So if the algorithm yielding the $\gcd$ does not stop at a given step, the then the natural number associated to the next step - the degree of an associated polynomial - is strictly smaller which is a contradiction. 
**Definition 2.** A monomial order is a well ordering of $\mathbb{N}^n$ such that 
$$ \alpha \preceq \beta \Rightarrow \alpha + \gamma \preceq \beta + \gamma
$$
for all $\alpha,\beta,\gamma \in \mathbb{N}^n$
A monomial order of $\mathbb{N}^n$ gives a well-ordering of monomials in $k[X]$: define 
$$ X^\alpha \preceq X^\beta$$
if $\alpha \preceq \beta$. Thus monomials are ordered according to their degrees. 